README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/weak-head/pymble">
        pymble
    </a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/weak-head/pymble">
        <img alt="Build Status"
             src="https://travis-ci.org/weak-head/pymble.svg?branch=master">
    </a>
    <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/weak-head/pymble?branch=master">
        <img alt="Coverage Status"
             src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/weak-head/pymble/badge.svg?branch=master">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/weak-head/pymble/blob/master/LICENSE">
        <img alt="License: MIT"
             src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  pymble is a telnet server that converts images and graphics into colored ASCII art that is rendered on any ANSI compatible terminal
</p>

<hr>

![futurama](/img/futurama.png)

<hr>

## Usage

By default, if started without any arguments, pymble runs as a telnet server and listens to incoming connections on port 23. To change the default port just specify it explicitly on the startup:

``` sh
$ pymble -p 42
```

You can use pretty much any telnet client to connect to the server. Once connected type `help` for the usage information:

![telnet-usage](/img/telnet-usage.png)

The image is rendered directly in your terminal and you would be limited to capabilities of your telnet client. Some telnet clients do not support TrueColor, others could alter the color a little bit. Also there is a [minor inconsistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#Colors) of the default colors in the different terminals/clients. So just keep this in mind if you want to have a good color accuracy.

Another thing to consider is the the font that is used to render the ASCII art. If you are relying on the automatic ASCII art width/height detection all the image transformations and approximations would be done for the font with the aspect ratio of `0.58`. Mostly it works OK for `monofur`, `Menlo` or `Verdana`, but if you are using `Courier New` or something like `Times New Roman` they would have a completely different aspect ratio. So if you dont have a desired result the good idea would be to explicitly specify the width and the height of resulting ASCII art that works best for you.

### Command-line usage

Commit message:

a few command-line usage examples in readme

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/weak-head/pymble">
        pymble
    </a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/weak-head/pymble">
        <img alt="Build Status"
             src="https://travis-ci.org/weak-head/pymble.svg?branch=master">
    </a>
    <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/weak-head/pymble?branch=master">
        <img alt="Coverage Status"
             src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/weak-head/pymble/badge.svg?branch=master">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/weak-head/pymble/blob/master/LICENSE">
        <img alt="License: MIT"
             src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  pymble is a telnet server that converts images and graphics into colored ASCII art that is rendered on any ANSI compatible terminal
</p>

<hr>

![futurama](/img/futurama.png)

<hr>

## Usage

By default, if started without any arguments, pymble runs as a telnet server and listens to incoming connections on port 23. To change the default port just specify it explicitly on the startup:

``` sh
$ pymble -p 42
```

You can use pretty much any telnet client to connect to the server. Once connected type `help` for the usage information:

![telnet-usage](/img/telnet-usage.png)

The image is rendered directly in your terminal and you are limited to the capabilities of your telnet client. Some telnet clients do not support TrueColor, others could alter the color a little bit. Also there is a [minor inconsistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#Colors) of the default colors in the different terminals/clients. So just keep this in mind if you want to have a good color accuracy.

Another thing to consider is the font that is used to render the ASCII art. In case if you are relying on the automatic ASCII art width/height detection all the image transformations and approximations would be done for the font with the aspect ratio of `0.58`. Mostly it works OK for `monofur`, `Menlo` or `Verdana`, but if you are using `Courier New` or something like `Times New Roman` they would have a completely different aspect ratio. So if you dont have a desired result the good idea would be to explicitly specify the width and the height of the resulting ASCII art and find the settings that works best for your setup.

### Command-line usage

You can convert images to ASCII art directly from the command line without a need to run the telnet server.

``` sh

# show help and usage information
$ pymble --help

# render as 40x40 art using TrueColor
$ pymble -c tc -w 40 -h 40 image.png

# default size, grayscale art
$ pymble --color gs /home/image.png

# fixed width, flexible height, 16 colors
$ pymble -c 16 -w 80 http://some/url/img.png

```
